Short Communication
Establishing Magnetic Resonance Images Orientation for the
EADC-ADNI Manual Hippocampal Segmentation Protocol
Marina Boccardi, MS, PhD, Martina Bocchetta, MS, Liana G. Apostolova, MD, MSCR, Gregory Preboske, MS, Nicolas
Robitaille, MS, PhD, Patrizio Pasqualetti, MS, PhD, Louis D. Collins, MS, PhD, Simon Duchesne, MS, PhD, Clifford R.
Jack Jr, MD, Giovanni B. Frisoni, MD, for the EADC-ADNI Working Group on The Harmonized Protocol for
Hippocampal Volumetry,* for the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative**
From the LENITEM (Laboratory of Epidemiology, Neuroimaging and Telemedicine) IRCCS – S. Giovanni di Dio – Fatebenefratelli Brescia, Italy (MB, MBocch, GBF); Mary S.
Easton Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research and Laboratory of NeuroImaging, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, California (LGA);
Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, Rochester, Minnesota (GP, CRJ); Department of Radiology, Université Laval and Centre de Recherche de
l’Institut Universitaire en Santé Mentale de Québec, Quebec City, Canada (NR, SD); AFaR – Associazione Fatebenefratelli per la Ricerca, Rome, Italy; Clinical and Molecular
Epidemiology, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS) San Raffaele Pisana, Rome, Italy; McConnell Brain Imaging Center, Montreal Neurological Institute,
McGill University, Montreal, Canada (LDC).

ABSTRACT
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE

An effort to define and validate a Harmonized Protocol for standard hippocampal segmentation is being carried out. We wished
to estimate the effect of magnetic resonance image (MRI) spatial orientation on manual hippocampal segmentations to define
optimal standard orientation of MRIs for hippocampal volumetry.
METHODS

Three expert tracers segmented twice the hippocampi of 10 ADNI subjects on MRI slices oriented perpendicular to the anteriorposterior commissure (AC-PC) line and the long hippocampal axes plane, following internationally harmonized landmarks. We
computed intra and interrater reliability figures for total volumes and similarity coefficients.
RESULTS

Total volume reliability was similar for both orientations. Similarity coefficients were significantly higher for the AC-PC orientation
(exact P = 0.002).
DISCUSSION

These data show that AC-PC orientation is slightly more reliable for manual segmentations, possibly due to better visualization
of the cerebrospinal fluid spaces separating hippocampal head and amygdala. A Delphi panel of experts has used these data to
decide on the optimal orientation for a Harmonized Protocol for hippocampal segmentation.
Keywords: Hippocampus, manual segmentation, magnetic resonance imaging, harmonized protocol, standard operating procedures.
Acceptance: Received April 11, 2013, and in revised form June 7, 2013. Accepted for publication June 30, 2013.
Correspondence: Address correspondence to Giovanni B. Frisoni, LENITEM (Laboratory of Epidemiology, Neuroimaging and Telemedicine) IRCCS –
S. Giovanni di Dio – Fatebenefratelli Brescia, Italy. E-mail: gfrisoni@fatebenefratelli.it.
∗

Please see Supporting Material at http://www.centroalzheimer.it/public/MB/SOPs/PaperCheck4Axes/03_Supplementary.doc for a complete list of Harmonized Protocol Group investigators.
Data used in preparation of this article were obtained from the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database (www.loni.ucla.edu/ADNI).
As such, the investigators within the ADNI contributed to the design and implementation of ADNI and/or provided data but did not participate in
analysis or writing of this report. A complete listing of ADNI investigators can be found at: http://adni.loni.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/how_to_apply/
ADNI_Acknowledgement_List.pdf.
This manuscript was approved by the ADNI Data and Publication Commettee on December 19, 2012.
∗∗

J Neuroimaging 2014;24:509-514.
DOI: 10.1111/jon.12065

Introduction
Manual segmentation is the gold standard for segmenting
the hippocampus on magnetic resonance images (MRI), typically in the coronal view, using either an acquisition resliced
perpendicularly to the long axes of the hippocampus, or to

Copyright

the line connecting the anterior and posterior commissures
(AC-PC line).1, 2 Orientation along the hippocampal axes was
long preferred by segmenting neuroanatomists3–9 since it was
believed to provide better clear-cut boundaries due to less partial volume effect through the hippocampal body. More recent

◦ 2013 by the American Society of Neuroimaging
C

509

protocols, however, made an increased use of AC-PC oriented
images,10–14 in order to take advantage of automated software
for image preprocessing, able to reorient the images perpendicular to the AC-PC line. The disadvantage of greater partial
volume effect is in this case counterbalanced by the minimal
human effort required in the automated preprocessing phase.1, 2
In the context of the Harmonized Protocol Project, which
aims to establish an international protocol for manual segmentation of the hippocampus, our objective was to assess differences
in measurement reliability for manual segmentations along either the AC-PC or hippocampal axes, in order to allow a Delphi
panel of experts to take evidence-based decisions for the definition of the optimal MRI orientation.

Methods
We recruited three expert tracers based on both expertise and
balanced bias for a specific orientation (LA with greater practice
on AC-PC; GP on hippocampal axes; and MBocch with similar
practice in both orientations). MRI were taken from the dataset
ADNI (Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative), a project
launched in 2003 by the National Institute on Aging (NIA),
the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (NIBIB), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), private
pharmaceutical companies and non-profit organizations, with
the primary goal to test whether serial MRI, positron emission tomography (PET), other biological markers, and clinical
and neuropsychological assessment can be combined to measure the progression of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and
early Alzheimer’s disease (AD) (see also the Acknowledgements
section).
MRIs were selected semi-randomly for 10 subjects from the
ADNI dataset (adni.loni.ucla.edu) as follows: two subjects per
each of five degrees on Scheltens’ medial temporal lobe atrophy
scale.15 The tracers segmented all hippocampi twice, once on
images oriented along the AC-PC line, once on images oriented
along the hippocampal axes.

Preprocessing
We downloaded source images in the MINC format from the
ADNI database. We oriented MRIs along the AC-PC and the
hippocampal axes planes on the sagittal plane, through a rigid
body transformation (six degrees of freedom). We used ImageJ
(http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/index.html) to orient images along
hippocampal axes (mean inclination among right and left hippocampi), and the Montreal Neurological Institute package AutoReg (version 0.98v) (www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca) to orient images
along the AC-PC line, with the Institute’s ICBM152 nonlinear
symmetric template as reference.
Resampling was carried out with a linear transformation in
AutoReg, and with a bilinear transformation with ImageJ.

Hippocampal Segmentation
Tracers were blinded to MTA score. Images oriented along
AC-PC and hippocampal axes were presented in random order.
Segmentations were carried out from rostral to caudal
on the coronal resampled 1 mm thick images using MultiTracer (http://www.loni.ucla.edu/Software/MultiTracer), fol-

510

lowing the Harmonized Protocol landmarks described in
Ref. 16.
We computed hippocampal volumes using MultiTracer by
summing up the sub-volumes resulting from the multiplication
of the segmented area by slice thickness using the “Frust Volume” computation.

Statistics
We estimated volume intrarater reliability by computing intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) between segmentations on
the AC-PC and on hippocampal axes, and computing interrater reliability separately for AC-PC and hippocampal axesoriented images. We computed these interrater ICCs according
to a two-ways random effects model, with both images and tracers as random factors. Since the aim was to measure how far
from identical scores were raters and methods (orientation),
the most restrictive type (absolute agreement) of ICC was used
instead of simple consistency. The statistical analysis was conducted using SPSS 12.0.
We computed the spatial overlapping among three tracers
with the formula:
Similarity Coefficient =

3(A ∩ B ∩ C)
(|A| + |B| + |C|)

where |A| is the set of voxels of the segmented region A. This
formula was adapted from Dice’s similarity coefficient.17
We computed differences among overlapping coefficients
on both axes with the Wilcoxon non-parametric test for repeated measures separately for the left and right hippocampi.
We used non parametric statistics (χ 2 and Kruskall-Wallis) for
the analysis of socio-demographic features of the ADNI subjects
whose MRI was selected for this study.

Results
Scans were taken from subjects with homogeneous age (range:
69-85), gender, diagnoses, education, ApoE ε4 status, and
scanner manufacturer, across the different medial temporal
lobe atrophy degrees of severity (see Supporting Material,
Table S1).
Intrarater ICCs for the three tracers, computed between the
AC-PC and the hippocampal axes segmentations of the same
subjects, were .99 (CI 95%: .96-1, CI 95%), .98 (.94-1) and .95
(.83-.99) for the left, and .99 (.97-1), .99 (.96-1) and .97 (.88.99) for the right hippocampus. Interrater ICCs were higher
(and the confidence intervals narrower) for AC-PC (left: .94,
.79-.98 CI 95%; right: .94, .81-.99) than on hippocampal axes
oriented scans (left: .87, .41-.97, right: .91, .53-.98) (see crude
hippocampal volumes on Supporting Material, Table S2).
Similarity coefficients among three tracers were consistently .78 (SD: .03) for both left and right on AC-PC
oriented scans, and .76 (SD: .03) and .75 (SD: .02) respectively for left and right on hippocampal axes oriented scans
(Figure 1, box plots on the left). The difference between similarity coefficients were always in favour of AC-PC oriented
scans (Figure 1, right panel) (Wilcoxon test exact P = .002
for the left and right). Similarity coefficients among the three
tracers for each hippocampus on the two orientations can be

Journal of Neuroimaging Vol 24 No 5 September/October 2014

found in Table S3 (Supporting material,/centroalzheimer.it/
public/MB/SOPs/PaperCheck4Axes/03 Supplementary.doc).
Top and middle panels: Box-plots of similarity coefficients.
Upper and lower box boundaries: 25th and 75th percentiles of
the distribution. Red line: median. Red star: mean. Whiskers:
most extreme data points.
Bottom panel: Difference of similarity coefficient (AC-PC
minus hippocampal-axes). Values above the red line indicate
higher concordance on AC-PC oriented images. X axis values
denote scan number.

Discussion
Hippocampal segmentations based on harmonized landmarks,
carried out by three expert tracers from independent centres on
AC-PC and hippocampal axes oriented scans, were all characterized by very high volume ICCs, but we detected significantly
higher spatial overlap for segmentations completed on the
AC-PC oriented scans.
We examined individually hippocampal contours produced
by the three tracers in order to detect possible causes that could
account for this difference. The largest differences among tracers, occurring especially on the hippocampal axes orientation,
could be attributed to the segmentation of the head, at the level
of the boundary with the amygdala. The comparison through
3D navigation of the boundary area between the hippocampus and the amygdala on scans oriented on the AC-PC and on
hippocampal axes enables an appreciation of more informative
details on the former, consisting in better visualization of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spaces, more clearly separating the two
structures than in the visualization on the hippocampal axes
(Figure 2).
Minor regions of heterogeneity between tracers were identified on the tail end. These were equally observed on the AC-PC
and on the hippocampal axes oriented images (see as examples
Figure S1 in Supporting material at /centroalzheimer.it/
public/MB/SOPs/PaperCheck4Axes/03 Supplementary.doc),
and the movies (see captions in Supporting material) available
at:
http://www.centroalzheimer.it/public/MB/SOPs/
PaperCheck4Axes/Subject_09_worseAxis_Right.mov
http://www.centroalzheimer.it/public/MB/SOPs/
PaperCheck4Axes/Subject_09_worseACPC_Left.mov
http://www.centroalzheimer.it/public/MB/SOPs/
PaperCheck4Axes/Subject_04_bestAxis_Left.mov
http://www.centroalzheimer.it/public/MB/SOPs/
PaperCheck4Axes/Subject_03_bestACPC_Right.mov).

Fig 1. Similarity coefficients denoting spatial overlapping of segmentations on the AC-PC- and hippocampal axes-oriented images.
Segmentations were carried out on the right and left hippocampi
on 10 ADNI scans by three expert tracers. Higher absolute values
indicate higher concordance on the referred orientation.

Although the AC-PC orientation seemed to provide more
detailed information for correct and reliable separation of the
hippocampus from adjacent structures, and particularly from
the amygdala from our image analysis, we cannot exclude that
the wider practice in examining brain structures on the standard
AC-PC oriented images of the brain, as they are reported on any
atlas, may also have influenced the tracers’ performance. This is
in turn consistent with the convenience of setting standard operating procedures to facilitate reliability of measurements and
of being consistent with other available standard procedures.

Boccardi et al: Effect of MRI Orientation on Hippocampal Segmentation

511

Fig 2. Illustration of the better visualization of the hippocampal-amygdala boundary on AC-PC oriented (upper line) than on hippocampal
axes (bottom line) oriented scans. The CSF separating the hippocampal head from the amygdala can be better visualized on the axial plane
on images oriented along the AC-PC plane (upper row) than on images oriented along the hippocampal axes (lower row). The red arrows in
the magnified axial view illustrate the level of the boundary between the hippocampus and the amygdala. Only the AC-PC-oriented axial view
allows to discriminate the anterior digitations of the hippocampus, at its boundary with the amygdala.

Volumetric ICCs were very high, although tracers came
from different centers. We believe that this reliability may
be a consequence of the extremely detailed description of
landmarks provided within the Harmonized Protocol
project16, 18, 19 (www.hippocampal-protocol.net).
We did not compute proper intrarater values separately for
the AC-PC and the hippocampal axes orientations, but only
a proxy, by considering segmentations carried out on the two
orientations of the same images. Although separate intraraters
for the two orientations would have been preferable, it is possible that a ceiling effect of these very experienced tracers would
have hidden a difference due to orientation, while interrater values are more liable to the effect of confounders like orientation.
This is especially plausible considering that we used the “absolute” method for ICCs computations, which is more restrictive
than the most common “consistency” method.
We are not aware of previous studies trying to quantify the
differences of reliability in hippocampal segmentation on images oriented along different axes. The need to carry out this
kind of investigation arose from the need to define a Harmonized Protocol for hippocampal segmentation, to set a standardized operating procedure in the use of hippocampal volumetry
as a biomarker for AD.20
As the next step of this project, the quantitative data described here were used to inform the Delphi panel of experts16
to decide on the optimal orientation of MRIs for a Harmonized Protocol for hippocampal segmentation. Indeed, based
on the described data the Delphi panel achieved a significant
agreement for the AC-PC orientation. This decision, that will
be described in detail elsewhere, is also nicely consistent with
the current standard orientation of the brain in different settings, from neuropathology to atlas representations. Moreover,
the sources of heterogeneity in segmentations observed in this

512

phase have been used to further improve landmarks descriptions and instructions that were defined in the Harmonized
Protocol.
All updates of the project can be found at
www.hippocampal-protocol.net.

Wyeth, part of the Pfizer group, and Lilly have provided unrestricted
grants in support of the work reported in this paper. The Alzheimer’s
Association has provided logistic support for the update meetings of
the project in Toronto (April, 2010), Honolulu (July, 2010 and April,
2011), Paris (July, 2011), New Orleans (April, 2012) and Vancouver
(July, 2012). A follow-up project has been funded by the Alzheimer’s
Association: “A Harmonized Protocol for Hippocampal Volumetry: an
EADC-ADNI Effort,” grant no. IIRG -10-174022.
NR and SD have received funding support from the Ministère du
Développement Économique, de l’Innovation et de l’Exportation du
Québec and the Alzheimer’s Society of Canada.
EADC-ADNI centres and PIs taking part to the project are
listed in Supporting Material (/centroalzheimer.it/public/MB/SOPs/
PaperCheck4Axes/03 Supplementary.doc), and reported on the official project web-site (http://www.hippocampal-protocol.net/SOPs/
workinggroup.html).
Data used in the preparation of this article were obtained from
the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database
(adni.loni.ucla.edu). Data used in the preparation of this article were obtained from the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI)
database (adni.loni.ucla.edu). The ADNI was launched in 2003 by the
National Institute on Aging (NIA), the National Institute of Biomedical
Imaging and Bioengineering (NIBIB), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), private pharmaceutical companies and non-profit organizations, as a $60 million, 5-year public-private partnership. The primary
goal of ADNI has been to test whether serial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), other biological markers, and clinical and neuropsychological assessment can be combined
to measure the progression of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and

Journal of Neuroimaging Vol 24 No 5 September/October 2014

early Alzheimer’s disease (AD). Determination of sensitive and specific
markers of very early AD progression is intended to aid researchers
and clinicians to develop new treatments and monitor their effectiveness, as well as lessen the time and cost of clinical trials. The Principal
Investigator of this initiative is Michael W. Weiner, MD, VA Medical
Center and University of California-—San Francisco. ADNI is the result
of efforts of many co-investigators from a broad range of academic institutions and private corporations, and subjects have been recruited from
over 50 sites across the U.S. and Canada. The initial goal of ADNI was
to recruit 800 subjects but ADNI has been followed by ADNI-GO and
ADNI-2. To date these three protocols have recruited over 1500 adults,
ages 55 to 90, to participate in the research, consisting of cognitively
normal older individuals, people with early or late MCI, and people
with early AD. The follow up duration of each group is specified in
the protocols for ADNI-1, ADNI-2 and ADNI-GO. Subjects originally
recruited for ADNI-1 and ADNI-GO had the option to be followed in
ADNI-2. For up-to-date information, see www.adni-info.org.
Data collection and sharing for this project was funded by ADNI
(National Institutes of Health Grant U01 AG024904). ADNI is funded
by the National Institute on Aging, the National Institute of Biomedical
Imaging and Bioengineering, and through generous contributions from
the following: Abbott; Alzheimer’s Association; Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation; Amorfix Life Sciences Ltd.; AstraZeneca; Bayer
HealthCare; BioClinica, Inc.; Biogen Idec Inc.; Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company; Eisai Inc.; Elan Pharmaceuticals Inc.; Eli Lilly and Company; F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and its affiliated company Genentech, Inc.; GE Healthcare; Innogenetics, N.V.; IXICO Ltd.; Janssen
Alzheimer Immunotherapy Research & Development, LLC.; Johnson
& Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development LLC.; Medpace,
Inc.; Merck & Co., Inc.; Meso Scale Diagnostics, LLC.; Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation; Pfizer Inc.; Servier; Synarc Inc.; and Takeda
Pharmaceutical Company. The Canadian Institutes of Health Research
is providing funds to support ADNI clinical sites in Canada. Private Rev
November 7, 2012 sector contributions are facilitated by the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health (www.fnih.org). The grantee
organization is the Northern California Institute for Research and Education, and the study is coordinated by the Alzheimer’s Disease Cooperative Study at the University of California, San Diego. ADNI data are
disseminated by the Laboratory for Neuro Imaging at the University
of California, Los Angeles. This research was also supported by NIH
grants P30 AG010129 and K01 AG030514.

Appendix
Collaborators: John G. Csernansky, Mony J. de Leon, Leyla
deToledo-Morrell, Ronald J. Killiany, Stéphane Lehéricy,
Nikolai Malykhin, Johannes Pantel, Jens C. Pruessner, Hilkka
Soininen, Craig Watson.
Appendix collaborator affiliations: Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Northwestern University Feinberg
School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois (JGC); New York University School of Medicine, Center for Brain Health, New York,
NY (MJdL); Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University, Chicago, Illinois (LdTM); Department of Anatomy and
Neurobiology, Boston University School of Medicine, (RJK);
Center for NeuroImaging Research – CENIR and Department
of Neuroradiology, Université Pierre et Marie Curie- Paris 6,
Groupe Hospitalier Pitié-Salpétriére, Paris, France (SL); Department of Biomedical Engineering, Centre for Neuroscience,
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada (NM); Institute of General Practice, University of, University of Frankfurt/Main, Germany, (JP); McGill Centre for Studies in Aging,

Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada (JCP); Department of Neurology, University of
Eastern Finland and Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland (HS); Wayne State University School of Medicine, University Health Center, St. Antoine, Detroit, MI (CW).

References
1. Geuze E, Vermetten E, Bremner JD. MR-based in vivo hippocampal volumetrics. 1: review of methodologies currently employed.
Mol Psychiatry 2005;10:147-159.
2. Boccardi M, Ganzola R, Bocchetta M, et al. Survey of protocols for
the manual segmentation of the hippocampus: preparatory steps
towards a Joint EADC-ADNI Harmonized Protocol. J Alzheimer’s
Dis 2011;26:61-75.
3. Bartzokis G, Altshuler LL, Greider T, et al. Reliability of medial
temporal lobe volume measurements using reformatted 3D images.
Psychiatr Res 1998;82:11-24.
4. Convit A, De Leon MJ, Tarshish C, et al. Specific hippocampal
volume reductions in individuals at risk for Alzheimer’s disease.
Neurobiol Aging 1997;18:131-138.
5. deToledo-Morrell L, Stoub TR, Bulgakova M, et al. MRI-derived
entorhinal volume is a good predictor of conversion from MCI to
AD. Neurobiol Aging 2004;25:1197-1203.
6. Jack CR Jr. MRI-based hippocampal volume measurements in
epilepsy. Epilepsia 1994;35 Suppl 6:S21-S29.
7. Lehericy S, Baulac M, Chiras J, et al. Amygdalohippocampal MR
volume measurements in the early stages of Alzheimer disease.
AJNR Am J Neuroradiol 1994;15:929-937.
8. Soininen HS, Partanen K, Pitkanen A, et al. Volumetric MRI analysis of the amygdala and the hippocampus in subjects with ageassociated memory impairment: correlation to visual and verbal
memory. Neurology 1994;44:1660-1668.
9. Watson C, Jack CR Jr, Cendes F. Volumetric magnetic resonance
imaging. Clinical applications and contributions to the understanding of temporal lobe epilepsy. Arch Neurol 1997;54:1521-1531.
10. Malykhin NV, Bouchard TP, Ogilvie CJ, et al. Three-dimensional
volumetric analysis and reconstruction of amygdala and hippocampal head, body and tail. Psychiatr Res 2007;155:155-165.
11. Haller JW, Banerjee A, Christensen GE, et al. Three-dimensional
hippocampal MR morphometry with high-dimensional transformation of a neuroanatomic atlas. Radiology 1997;202:504-510.
12. Pantel J, O’Leary DS, Cretsinger K, et al. A new method for the
in vivo volumetric measurement of the human hippocampus with
high neuroanatomical accuracy. Hippocampus 2000;10:752-758.
13. Pruessner JC, Li LM, Serles W, et al. Volumetry of hippocampus
and amygdala with high-resolution MRI and three-dimensional
analysis software: minimizing the discrepancies between laboratories. Cereb Cortex 2000;10:433-442.
14. Killiany RJ, Moss MB, Albert MS, et al. Temporal lobe regions on magnetic resonance imaging identify patients with early
Alzheimer’s disease. Arch Neurol 1993;50:949-954.
15. Scheltens P, Leys D, Barkhof F, et al. Atrophy of medial temporal lobes on MRI in “probable” Alzheimer’s disease and normal
ageing: diagnostic value and neuropsychological correlates. J Neurol
Neurosurg Psychiatr 1992;55:967-972.
16. Boccardi M, Bocchetta M, Apostolova L, et al. Delphi consensus
on landmarks for the manual segmentation of the hippocampus on
MRI: preliminary results from the eadc-adni harmonized protocol
working group. Neurology 2012;78:S04.003.
17. Robitaille N, Duchesne S. Label fusion strategy selection. Int J
Biomed Imaging 2012;43:1095.
18. Boccardi M, Bocchetta M, Ganzola R, et al. Operationalizing protocol differences for EADC-ADNI manual hippocampal segmentation. Alzheimers Dement 2013 doi:pii: S1552–5260(13)00078–2.
10.1016/j.jalz.2013.03.001; PMID: 23706515.

Boccardi et al: Effect of MRI Orientation on Hippocampal Segmentation

513

19. Boccardi M, Bocchetta M, Ganzola R, et al. Operationalization of differences among protocols for manual hippocampal segmentation: quantitative data for eadc-adni consensual decisions on a harmonized protocol. Neurology 2011;76:
A661.
20. Frisoni GB, Jack CR. Harmonization of magnetic resonancebased manual hippocampal segmentation: a mandatory
step for wide clinical use. Alzheimers Dement 2011;7:171174.

Supporting Information
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online
version of this article at the publisher’s website:

514

Table S1 – Socio-demographic features of the 10 ADNI
whose scans were used in the current study.
Table S2 – Crude hippocampal volumes of 10 ADNI subjects obtained through manual segmentation on MRIs oriented
along the AC-PC line and long hippocampal axis.
Table S3 – Similarity coefficients for each hippocampus
segmented on the AC-PC-oriented and long hippocampal axesoriented planes.
Fig S1. Spatial overlapping among the three tracers in the
case with the most favourable similarity coefficient (0.813; subject 3, right hippocampus, segmented on the AC-PC-oriented
MRI).

Journal of Neuroimaging Vol 24 No 5 September/October 2014

