M e t h o d s : We examined brain functional and anatomical changes associated with persistent pain in 40 PD patients, 20 with persistent pain and 20 without pain.

We assessed pain by the King's Parkinson's Pain Scale, the Visual Analogue Scale for pain, and the Leeds Assessment for Neuropathic Symptoms and Sign.

K e y W o r d s : chronic pain; Parkinson's disease; neuropathic pain; neuroimaging; fMRI and a disabling impact on quality of life.1,2 Pain is reported already at the onset of the disease,3 it negatively affects rehabilitation strategies, and increases relatives and caregivers' burden.

12,13 Specific brain alterations are found in several persistent pain conditions with a different pathophysiology, such as irritable bowel syndrome, fibromyalgia, headache, or neuropathic pain.

Higher scores are associated with more frequent or more intense pain.21 The LANSS scale was developed to discriminate whether pain had predominantly neuropathic features, and it includes 7 items investigating different symptoms such as burning pain, electroshock-like pain, pins and needles sensations, and hyperalgesia.

All PD-Pain patients reported positive scores in at least 5 domains of King's PD-Pain scale, confirming other published data that have showed a high prevalence and variability of pain in PD.4 In conclusion, we highlighted for the first time a network of brain regional alterations specifically associated to persistent pain in PD and not present in painfree patients with similar cognitive, psychological, and clinical profiles.

Pain in PD is associated with distinct regional alterations in dopaminergic areas such as the OFC-which presents both functional and structural changes-and PFC. Other nondopaminergic areas such as the pIC, PCC, parietal regions, and cerebellum also showed structural and functional changes that might be related to sensory-motor and emotional responses to pain.

Further longitudinal studies are needed to improve our understanding of the supraspinal mechanisms of pain in PD. Our data strongly recommend that future research considers and controls for pain symptoms, as they are associated with important structural and functional cerebral changes.

Spontaneous pain, pain threshold, and pain tolerance in Parkinson's disease.

Role of nucleus accumbens in neuropathic pain: linked multi-scale evidence in the rat transitioning to neuropathic pain.