Beyond the exclusion of surgical pathology, signal change and cerebral atrophy visible on structural MRI can be used to identify diagnostically relevant imaging features, which provide support for clinical diagnosis of neurodegenerative dementias.

SYSTEMATIC ASSESSMENT OF STRUCTURAL IMAGING Beyond the exclusion of surgical pathology, structural MRI in patients with suspected dementia should be assessed in terms of signal change on MRI and cerebral atrophy in a systematic fashion.

1136/jnnp-2013-306285 695 Neurodegeneration Cerebral atrophy assessment Atrophy is the principal imaging ﬁnding in neurodegenerative dementias and is typically best identiﬁed on T1-weighted images and assessed on a combination of axial, sagittal and coronal views.

Frontal lobe: Disproportionate frontal lobe atrophy is associated with FTLD pathology but does not differentiate between different FTLD histopathologies may have symmetrical or asymmetrical frontal atrophy with or without additional temporal lobe atrophy.

44-46 Despite a typically asymmetric clinical presentation, symmetrical frontal lobe atrophy is the predominant imaging ﬁnding in patients with dementia due to CBD pathology.

59 Visual rating of posterior atrophy in combination with MTL atrophy rating has been reported to help discriminate AD from FTD and AD from normal ageing with a sensitivity of 73% and speciﬁcity of 87%.60 Gross frontoparietal atrophy conﬁned to a single hemisphere has been described in patients with progranulin mutations and should be considered in the presence of a strong family history.

61-63 Focal hippocampal atrophy Hippocampal atrophy is the most established imaging biomarker of AD and as a result has now been incorporated in to diagnostic criteria.

70 Frontal atrophy may be subtle or marked in PSP. Pontocerebellar atrophy may indicate other neurodegenerative conditions such as multiple system atrophy, which in rare cases may present with a cognitive phenotype.

19 Generalised atrophy Global volume loss without focal lobar atrophy is a common and non-speciﬁc ﬁnding on structural MRI studies in normal ageing and dementia, and it can sometimes be difﬁcult to determine where normal ageing ends and pathological atrophy begins.

Visual assessment of atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of pathologically conﬁrmed young-onset dementias.