The volume of each measured MTL structure also declined with age in patients with AD. The volume of each MTL structure was significantly smaller in AD patients than control subjects.

The mean hippocampal volumes for AD patients relative to control subjects by severity of disease were as follows: very mild AD -1.75 SD below the control mean, mild AD -1.99 SD, and moderate AD -2.22 SD. Age- and gender-adjusted, normalized MRI-based hippocampal volumetric measurements provide a sensitive marker of the MTL neuroanatomic degeneration in AD early in the disease process.

Forty-four of the 126 control subjects were men, 16 of the 36 CDR 0.5 Alzheimer disease patients were men, 10 of the 43 CDR 1 patients were men, and seven of the 15 CDR 2 patients were men.

T One control subject, three patients in CDR 0.5, four patients in CDR 1, and two patients in CDR 2 with missing values.

We assessed the extent to which patients differed from control subjects, and for each anatomic structure W scores were significantly < O among AD patients.

The presence of hippocampal atrophy in an individual patient can be assessed by comparing the total intracranial volume normalized hippocampal volumes of that patient against those of age- and gender-matched control subjects reported in this table.

The sensitivity of hippocampal volumes to distinguish AD patients from control subjects was assessed by computing the percentage of AD patients with W scores a t selected percentiles among control subjects.

These data do not address the issue of optimal Table 5 Diagnostic discrimination of normalized total hippocampal volume adjusted for age and gender" Indicated percentile of normal AD patients CDR 0.5 20 10 5 1 97.2 77.8 72.2 58.3 36.1 CDR 1(N = 43) 90.7 83.7 81.4 67.4 53.5 CDR 2 93.3 86.7 80.0 66.7 66.7 Overall of Alzheimer's disease patients below indicated percentile of normal.

A The analysis of segmental hippocampal volumes comparison of the normalized hippocampal volumetin control subjects demonstrated that age-associated ric measurements of an individual patient with agevolume loss in the head of the hippocampus exceeds and gender-specific normal percentiles would provide a clinically hippocampal segments, the largest volumetric differuseful assessment of the presence and severity of ence between control subjects and AD patients was hippocampal atrophy.

Although all the MTL study was the ability of hippocampal volumetric limbic structures measured were significantly measurements to discriminate between control subsmaller in AD patients than control subjects, the jects and AD patients with very mild disease.
