To improve the accuracy of the clinical diagnosis of AD, biomarkers like cerebrospinal fluid and neuroimaging techniques like magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography have been incorporated into the diagnostic guidelines of AD. Case presentation: In this case report we outline in reference to one of our patients with presenile dementia the current approaches to the diagnosis of AD. The patient was a 59-year old woman presenting with progressive memory decline.

1 Volumetric MRI analysis of our patient's hippocampus and parietal lobe compared to AD patients and age-matched healthy controls after intracranial-volume correction.

30 AD, 13 DLB with SP, 5 DLB without SP 30 AD, 9 DLB with NFT, 9 DLB without NFT P-Tau, total Tau, Aβ42 Aβ42 reduced in AD and DLB with SP compared to DLB without SP no difference in Aβ42 levels of AD and DLB with SP patients P-Tau, total Tau, Aβ42 P-Tau higher in AD compared to DLB with and without NFT no difference in P-Tau levels of DLB with and without NFT no difference of total Tau between the DLB subgroups and AD Koopmann et al.

2 AD, 3 DLB low occipital FDG-uptake in 1 AD patient and all DLB patients Foster et al.

2 AD, 3 DLB PiB high global cortical PiB retention in one AD patient, low global cortical PiB in the other 2 DLB patients with borderline PiB retention, 1 DLB patient with high PiB retention Bacskai et al.

In comparison to AD patients, DLB and FTD patients present significantly lower P-tau and total tau levels.

Aβ42 is generally decreased in DLB. Most studies could not define valuable CSF Aβ42 cut-off scores for differentiation of DLB from AD. CSF Aβ42 levels of FTD patients on the other hand are significantly higher compared to AD patients.

Volumetric MRI analysis however revealed significant atrophy of the parietal and temporal lobe, especially of the hippocampus, and may therefore be useful to obtain rater- independent and objective results [7, 8]. Comparison of atrophy patterns can differentiate AD patients with a high sensitivity and specificity from healthy controls and other dementia syndromes like DLB and FTD. In DLB significant gray matter loss is detectable in bilateral amygdalae, the middle temporal lobe as well as the dorsal ponto-mesencephalic junction area.

In comparison, DLB patients show an additional significant metabolic reduction in the occipital cortex, particularly the primary visual cortex, which distinguishes DLB with a high Page 5 of 8 sensitivity and specificity from AD patients.

DLB patients can show a similar pattern yet with lower amount of Aβ ligand binding compared with AD patients.