Wc therefore compared hippocampal volumes in a total of 113 subjects: 50 patients with mild to moderate AD, 9 patients with vascular dementia, 12 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease without dementia, 8 patients with PD and dementia, and 34 elderly control subjects.

We evaluated the volumes of hippocampus i n 113 subjects: 50 patients with early probable A11 according to National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease a n d Related Disorders Association criteria"'; 9 patients with VaD according to the DSM-111-R criteria"; 20 patients with idiopathic PD, of whom 8 were demented; and 34 cognitivcly and neurologically normal subjects.

In addition lo the MRI, the investigation of the patients and t h e control subjects included clinical neurologic examination, EEG, and a comprehensive battery of neuropsychological and laboratory tests to exclude other causes of dementia and From the- 1)cpartment:; or Nettrolngy I I h. Laakso, Itiekkinen, Lehtovirta.

ANOVA showed a significant difference in age; the VaD patients were older than AD and PD patients.

Duration of dementia did not differ in the demented patient groups.

Seven VaD patients had a history of cerebral infarctions, but at the time of the neurologic examination, right hemiparesis was present in one VaD patient and left hemiparesis in a second VaD patient.

The right hippocampal volumes of VaD patients were also larger t h a n those of AD, PD, and PDD patients.

On the left side, the AD patients had significantly smaller volumes than VaD and PD patients.

In the two VaD patients without atrophy, the lesions causing the dementia probably did not affect the size of hippocampus.

The cases with bilateral atrophy have vascular lesions affecting the hippocampus bilaterally, or alternatively they may present mixed dementia, that is, the combination of AD and VaD. In a previous autopsy study, the presence of mixed dementia was surprisingly high: three of four patients considered to have VaD had also AD, and 5 of 16 patients considered to have mixed dementia had AD alone.