JOURNAL OF MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING 27:685– 691 (2008)

Review Article

The Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative
(ADNI): MRI Methods
Clifford R. Jack Jr., MD,1* Matt A. Bernstein, PhD,1 Nick C. Fox, MD,2
Paul Thompson, PhD,3 Gene Alexander, PhD,4 Danielle Harvey, PhD,5
Bret Borowski, RTR,1 Paula J. Britson, BS,1 Jennifer L. Whitwell, PhD,1
Chadwick Ward, BA,1, Anders M. Dale, PhD,6 Joel P. Felmlee, PhD,1
Jeffrey L. Gunter, PhD,1 Derek L.G. Hill, PhD,7 Ron Killiany, PhD,8 Norbert Schuff, PhD,9
Sabrina Fox-Bosetti, PhD,9 Chen Lin, PhD,1 Colin Studholme, PhD,9
Charles S. DeCarli, MD,10 Gunnar Krueger, PhD,11 Heidi A. Ward, PhD,1,12
Gregory J. Metzger, PhD,13 Katherine T. Scott, PhD,11 Richard Mallozzi, PhD,12
Daniel Blezek, PhD,12 Joshua Levy, PhD,14 Josef P. Debbins, PhD,4,12
Adam S. Fleisher, MD,6 Marilyn Albert, PhD,15,16 Robert Green, MD,17
George Bartzokis, MD,3 Gary Glover, PhD,18 John Mugler, PhD,19 and
Michael W. Weiner, MD9 for the ADNI Study
The Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is a
longitudinal multisite observational study of healthy elders, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and Alzheimer’s disease. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), (18F)-ﬂuorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET),
urine serum, and cerebrospinal ﬂuid (CSF) biomarkers,

1

as well as clinical/psychometric assessments are acquiredat multiple time points. All data will be cross-linked and
made available to the general scientiﬁc community. The
purpose of this report is to describe the MRI methods employed in ADNI. The ADNI MRI core established speciﬁcations thatguided protocol development. A major effort was

Mayo Clinic and Foundation, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Queen Square,
London, United Kingdom.
3
Laboratory of Neuro Imaging, Department of Neurology, University of
California at Los Angeles School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California,
USA.
4
Neuroimage Analysis Laboratory, Department of Psychology, Arizona
State University, Tempe, Arizona, USA.
5
Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California Davis
School of Medicine, Davis, California, USA.
6
Department of Neuroscience, University of California at San Diego, La
Jolla, California, USA.
7
Centre for Medical Image Computing, University College London,
United Kingdom.
8
Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University School
of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
9
University of California at San Francisco, and Center for Imaging of
Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIND), Department of Veterans Affairs
Medical Center, San Francisco, California, USA.
10
Department of Neurology and Alzheimer’s Disease Center, University
of California at Davis School of Medicine, Davis, California, USA.
11
Siemens Medical Solutions, Erlangen, Germany.
12
General Electric Healthcare, Waukesha, WI, USA.
13
Philips Medical Systems, Best, The Netherlands.
14
The Phantom Laboratory, Greenwich, New York, USA.
15
Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
2

© 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

16

Division of Cognitive Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
17
Genetics Program & Alzheimer’s Disease Center, Boston University
School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
18
Lucas Magnetic Resonance Imaging Center, Department of Radiology, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.
19
Department of Radiology, University of Virginia School of Medicine,
Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
Contract grant sponsor: the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI; Principal Investigator: Michael Weiner; National Institutes of
Health grant U01 AG024904). ADNI is funded by the National Institute
on Aging, the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering, and the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health, through
generous contributions from the following companies and organizations: Pﬁzer Inc., Wyeth Research, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly and
Company, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck & Co. Inc., AstraZeneca AB, Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, the Alzheimer’s Association, Eisai
Global Clinical Development, Elan Corporation plc, Forest Laboratories, and the Institute for the Study of Aging (ISOA), with participation
from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
*Address reprint requests to: C.R.J. Jr., M.D., Department of Radiology,
Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905.
E-mail: jack.clifford@mayo.edu
Received November 28, 2006; Accepted May 22, 2007
DOI 10.1002/jmri.21049
Published online 26 February 2008 in Wiley InterScience (www.
interscience.wiley.com).

685

686

devoted toevaluating 3D T1-weighted sequences for morphometric analyses. Several options for this sequence were
optimized for the relevant manufacturer platforms and
then compared in a reduced-scale clinical trial. The protocol selected for the ADNI study includes: back-to-back 3D
magnetization prepared rapid gradient echo (MP-RAGE)
scans; B1-calibration scans when applicable; and an axial
proton density-T2 dual contrast (i.e., echo) fast spin echo/
turbo spin echo (FSE/TSE) for pathology detection. ADNI
MRI methods seek to maximize scientiﬁc utility while minimizing the burden placed on participants. The approach
taken in ADNI to standardization across sites and platforms of the MRI protocol, postacquisition corrections, and
phantom-based monitoring of all scanners could be used as
a model for other multisite trials.
Key Words: MRI; Alzheimer’s disease; clinical trials; imaging methods; imaging standardization
J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2008;27:685– 691.
© 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Dementia, one of the most feared associates of increasing longevity, represents a pressing public health problem and major research priority. Alzheimer’s disease
(AD) is the most common form of dementia, affecting
many millions around the world. There is currently no
cure for AD, but large numbers of novel compounds are
currently under development that have the potential to
modify the course of the disease and slow its progression. There is a pressing need for imaging biomarkers to
improve understanding of the disease and to assess the
efﬁcacy of these proposed treatments. Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has already been shown
to be sensitive to presymptomatic disease (1–10) and
has the potential to provide such a biomarker. For use
in large-scale multicenter studies, however, standardized methods that produce stable results across scanners and over time are needed.
The Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative
(ADNI) study is a longitudinal multisite observational
study of elderly individuals with normal cognition, mild
cognitive impairment (MCI), or AD (11,12). It is jointly
funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and
industry via the Foundation for the NIH. The study will
assess how well information (alone or in combination)
obtained from MRI, (18F)-ﬂudeoyglucose positron
emission tomography (FDG PET), urine, serum, and
cerebrospinal ﬂuid (CSF) biomarkers, as well as clinical
and neuropsychometric assessments, can measure disease progression in the three groups of elderly subjects
mentioned above. At the 55 participating sites in North
America, imaging, clinical, and biologic samples will be
collected at multiple time points in 200 elderly cognitively normal, 400 MCI, and 200 AD subjects. All subjects will be scanned with 1.5 T MRI at each time point,
and half of these will also be scanned with FDG PET.
Subjects not assigned to the PET arm of the study will
be eligible for 3 T MRI scanning. The goal is to acquire
both 1.5 T and 3 T MRI studies at multiple time points
in 25% of the subjects who do not undergo PET scanning [R2C1]. CSF collection at both baseline and 12
months is targeted for 50% of the subjects. Sampling
varies by clinical group. Healthy elderly controls will be

Jack Jr. et al.

sampled at 0, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months. Subjects with
MCI will be sampled at 0, 6, 12, 18, 24, and 36 months.
AD subjects will be sampled at 0, 6, 12, and 24 months.
Major goals of the ADNI study are: to link all of these
data at each time point and make this repository available to the general scientiﬁc community; to develop
technical standards for imaging in longitudinal studies;
to determine the optimum methods for acquiring and
analyzing images; to validate imaging and biomarker
data by correlating these with concurrent psychometric
and clinical assessments; and to improve methods for
clinical trials in MCI and AD. The ADNI study overall is
divided into cores, with each core managing ADNI-related activities within its sphere of expertise: clinical,
informatics, biostatistics, biomarkers, and imaging.
The purpose of this report is to describe the MRI methods and decision-making process underlying the selection of the MRI protocol employed in the ADNI study.

MATERIALS AND METHODS
The MRI portion of the ADNI study was divided into
three phases: development, preparation, and execution
of the study itself. In this report we outline activities of
the ﬁrst two phases. Members of the MRI core established a basic set of requirements that guided the protocol development process. The overarching principle
was to maximize scientiﬁc value while minimizing patient burden. Speciﬁc guidelines were:
1. The MRI data acquired by ADNI must be consistent across sites and over time. That is, similar
image qualities (contrast-to-noise, spatial resolution, resistance to artifact, reliability, speed, etc.)
must be achieved across sites and platforms over
time at each ﬁeld strength.
2. Based on responses to an initial questionnaire,
virtually all participating clinical enrollment sites
had access to at least one MRI scanner from GE
Healthcare, Philips Medical Systems, or Siemens
Medical Solutions. Consequently scanners from
only these three vendors were supported. A variety, but not all, of the MRI platforms from each
vendor were supported. Speciﬁcally, some older
platforms (e.g., Siemens Vision, or GE Healthcare
systems running software earlier than 9.1) were
not supported.
3. Modiﬁcation to an existing product pulse sequence on a particular vendor platform was encouraged, but only if it was both practical and
would substantially beneﬁt the study.
4. The study emphasis was on brain morphometry;
hence the most important image set was the T1weighted 3D volumetric acquisition. Isotropic
voxels were desired to avoid a directional bias,
but not required. The target voxel size was approximately 1 mm3, with a maximum of 1.5 mm
in any one direction.
5. The whole brain must be covered without image
wrap. Given the large number and variety of participating sites, the imaging volume must be easy
for technologists to prescribe regardless of experience level.

The Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative

6. Acquisition time for any series should be less
than 10 minutes.
7. Artifact reduction is more important than reduction in acquisition time.
8. At 3 T the increased signal-to-noise ratio (SNR)
compared with 1.5 T was used to increase spatial
resolution while increasing the receiver bandwidth to help compensate for the increased
chemical shift and the more rapid susceptibility
variation (as measured in hertz) at 3 T.
9. The 3D T1-weighted protocol must operate successfully with major imaging analysis methods
that have been employed in this ﬁeld such as
manual and atlas-based region of interest generation, boundary shift integral, voxel-based morphometry, and tensor-based morphometry.
10. ADNI must include phantom-based methods to
monitor scanner calibration across all sites over
the course of the study.
11. Post-acquisition correction of certain image artifacts would be implemented where applicable,
such as 3D distortion correction for warping due
to gradient nonlinearity.
Several basic decisions about the composition of the
MRI protocol for the execution phase were made on the
basis of the cumulative experience of members of the
MRI core with multisite MRI-based studies, information
gleaned from surveys at the participating ADNI clinical
sites, and the protocol guidelines established above.
Each subject will be enrolled in the study for a 3-year
period, and multiple types of data will be collected at
each sampling point, so we anticipate a high research
burden on each participant. Moreover, ADNI is an observational study, which offers participants no experimental treatment. In order to maximize scientiﬁc value
while minimizing patient burden, the MRI core targeted
the duration of the patient scanning portion of the execution phase MRI protocol to approximately 30 minutes. We also decided to scan the ADNI phantom immediately after each patient exam, rather than
decoupling phantom and human scanning. Site surveys revealed that the average time window allotted for
a single MRI examination of the head was approximately 45 minutes. The overall structure of the ADNI
MRI execution phase was therefore targeted to be 30
minutes of patient scan time and 15 minutes of phantom scan time.
The protocol at a minimum had to include at least one
high-quality, high-resolution 3D T1-weighted sequence,
as well as a second acquisition that provided T2weighted information to ascertain brain pathology. A
number of optional additional imaging sequences were
considered for the MRI protocol, including MR spectroscopy, diffusion tensor imaging, arterial spin labeling,
and ﬂuid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences. The MRI core decided to limit the scope of the
protocol to two domains— high-quality 3D T1-weighted
morphometric information and a dual contrast proton
density/T2-weighted sequence for pathology detection.
This decision was based on balancing the various competing considerations outlined above. Options for this
high-quality 3D T1-weighted sequence were magnetiza-

687

tion prepared rapid gradient echo (MP-RAGE; and IRFSPGR, which is a related technique available on the
GE scanners) and spoiled gradient echo (SPGR) or
equivalent (spoiled fast low angle shot [FLASH] for Siemens systems and T1 fast ﬁeld echo [FFE] for Philips
systems). We also considered an approach that had
been adopted by the Biomedical Informatics Research
Network (BIRN) study: generating synthetic T1 images
by acquiring stand-alone SPGR or equivalent 3D volumetric data sets with high and low ﬂip angles (13,14).
Development Phase
During the development phase a total of 29 sample
human studies with T1-weighted 3D volumetric studies
at 1.5 and 3 T were obtained from various ADNI sites
and the MRI vendors. Based on protocol features that
worked well across vendor platforms, a set of generic
protocols was generated and then reviewed and revised
by the MRI core group along with industry and external
advisors until a consensus was reached. The generic
protocols were adapted to yield vendor-speciﬁc protocols for the preparatory phase study based on availability of software options. Also, minor protocol differences
were introduced at this stage due to vendor-speciﬁc
implementation differences. A customized MP-RAGE
pulse sequence was developed for the GE platform to
minimize vendor-to-vendor differences. At this stage we
also identiﬁed and implemented pulse sequence ﬁxes
required for the T1-weighted IR pulse sequences on
some platforms, including increased RF bandwidth of
the inversion pulse at 3 T and increased gradient area
for the end-of-sequence spoiler. Note that these customization steps resulted in sequences that in some
cases were non-product. This in turn meant that ongoing support throughout the study by the MRI vendors
as systems were upgraded was required. At the conclusion of the development phase, vendor-speciﬁc protocols that included the list of 3D T1-weighted sequences
above (where appropriate by vendor platform) were created. This protocol was then employed in the preparatory phase.
Preparatory Phase Study
The ADNI MRI preparatory phase consisted of a mini
clinical trial the purpose of which was to select the 3D
T1-weighted volume sequence that would be employed
in the execution phase of the main ADNI study for
morphometric assessment. Two endpoints were evaluated: ﬁrst, the ability of the imaging sequence to appropriately differentiate normal control subjects from AD
subjects cross-sectionally; and second, test-retest precision on serial scan pairs obtained in normal elderly
control subjects (i.e., a situation in which no systematic
biologic change is expected). Six different sites, representing the relevant MRI vendor platforms at 1.5 and 3
T, participated in the ADNI MRI preparatory phase.
Over these six sites, 73 normal elderly subjects and 64
AD subjects were scanned once for cross-sectional
comparison purposes. The control subjects were
scanned again 2 weeks later in order to evaluate precision. Scanning sessions were performed on both

688

phased-array receive and single-channel T/R birdcage
RF coils for some platforms. The data acquired above
were submitted for quantitative evaluation using the
techniques that will be employed in the main ADNI data
analyses: boundary shift integral, voxel-based morphometry, tensor-based morphometry, atlas-based
hippocampal volumetrics, and also a measure of graywhite matter contrast to noise. In addition, scans were
graded qualitatively by a trained individual for artifacts
and general image quality on a four-point scale: none,
mild, moderate, and severe. Each scan was graded on
several separate criteria: blurring/ghosting; ﬂow artifact; intensity and homogeneity; SNR; susceptibility artifacts; and gray-white CSF contrast.
RESULTS
A total of 208 unique MRI studies in 137 subjects were
acquired during the preparatory phase. Plans for analysis of this data as initially outlined were compromised
by the discovery of additional image imperfections on
some system platforms while the preparatory phase
was in progress. These included inconsistent polarity of
the readout gradient between vendors that resulted in
undesirable cephalic shift of fat over the brain at the
base of the skull (Fig. 1) for sagittal acquisitions. Also,
with transmit receive (T/R) head coils, the images were
unacceptably noisy (Fig. 2a), which was corrected (at
the expense of increased imaging time) by increasing
the number of slices and the MP-RAGE repetition time,
as indicated in Table 1 and illustrated in Fig. 2. Finally,
some older systems imposed a 128 limit on the maximal
number of slices. This not only degraded the SNR but
also precluded sufﬁcient coverage. Both the change in
chemical shift direction and the lifting of the 128 slice
limit required further pulse sequence modiﬁcation. The
protocol change to increase SNR for T/R birdcage coils
and pulse sequence modiﬁcation for chemical shift direction were made while the preparatory phase was in
progress, resulting in undesirable discontinuities in
this data.

Figure 1. Undesirable chemical shift. The manufacturer’s default polarity of the readout gradient in the SI direction for
sagittal acquisitions shifted fat over the base of the brain
(arrow, left) in the ﬁrst version of the protocol. This hinders
automated brain extraction algorithms. Reversal of this shift
(right) required custom alteration of the manufacturer’s product imaging sequence.

Jack Jr. et al.

Figure 2. Poor SNR with single-channel birdcage coils in ﬁrst
version of protocol. As indicated in Table 1, the protocol using
a single-channel birdcage coil differs from the phased array
protocol. Left: When 1.5 T images are acquired using the
phased array protocol with a birdcage coil, poor SNR results.
Right: Making the parameter adjustments listed in Table 1
resolves the problem without increasing chemical shift.

The MRI core along with the external advisors met
during the 2004 annual ISMRM meeting in Miami. The
purpose of this meeting was to review data from the
preparatory phase and select a ﬁnal protocol for the
execution phase of ADNI. A general summary of the
qualitative ranking results from best to worst were:
MP-RAGE ⬎ SPGR ⬎ synthetic T1. The different scan
types were also graded on the basis of quantitative
measures made by the individual image analysis
groups in the MRI core. These data have appeared or
will appear as separate independent publications (15).
Overall the results were mixed. There was no clear
indication across the different analyses performed that
one image type outperformed the other. In addition,
where one image type was found to be better than another, differences were typically small. There was an
overall consensus that the MP-RAGE and SPGR or
equivalent sequences outperformed the synthetic T1
images. The primary advantages of the SPGR over MPRAGE were superior SNR and superior performance on
applications that placed a premium on brain-CSF segmentation. The advantages of the MP-RAGE sequence
were superior gray/white contrast to noise, superior
performance in some applications requiring cortical
segmentation, and imaging times that were under 10
minutes for all vendor platforms at both ﬁeld strengths.
The evaluation group also noted that the SNR advantage for SPGR was to a large extent present on birdcage
coil acquisitions at 1.5 T acquired with the initial unsatisfactory version of the preparatory phase MP-RAGE
protocol, which was acquired with birdcage coils. The
protocol changes illustrated in Fig. 2 resulted in a signiﬁcant improvement in the performance of MP-RAGE
in the various image processing algorithms. The evaluation group decided to extrapolate to what we would
have seen had the higher SNR protocol been used
throughout the entire preparatory phase when weighing the pros and cons of various MR sequences.
The evaluation group unanimously selected MPRAGE as the 3D sequence for the ADNI execution phase
(Fig. 3). The suggestion was also made to acquire backto-back MP-RAGE sequences as opposed to the more
traditional approach of a single acquisition per exam.

The Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative

689

Table 1
Range of Parameters for MP-RAGE Acquisition
B0

Coil

Nx

Ny

Nz No. of
slices

FoV (mm)

TRa (ms)

TI
(ms)

Flip
(deg)

1.5T

BC

192

192

184–208

240 ⫻ 240

3000

1000

8

1.5T

MA

192

192

160–170

240 ⫻ 240

2300–2400

1000

8

3.0T

MA or
BC

256

256c

160–170

256–260 ⫻ 240

2300 or
3000d

853–
900

8–9

Plane
Sagittal PEb
⫽ A/P
Sagittal PE
⫽ A/P
Sagittal PE
⫽ A/P

⌬z
(mm)

RBW
(Hz/pixel)

Time
(min:s)

1.2

162–180

9:36–9:38

1.2

162–200

7:11–7:42

1.2

240–244

9:14–9:22

a

TR is deﬁned here as the repetition time for the inversion pulses.
PE is the phase-encoded direction.
c
256 is the base resolution. Because the ﬁeld of view is rectangular at 3.0 T, the net number of acquired phase-encoding steps is
approximately 0.94 ⫻ 256 ⫽ 240.
d
The longer value of TR ⫽ 3000 at 3 T is used only with pulse sequences where the train of gradient echo readouts represents the in-plane
phase encoding. Because there are fewer encoded slices than in-plane phase encodings in the 3 T protocol, the net acquisition time is
approximately equal to the TR ⫽ 2300 msec case.
MA ⫽ multicoil phased-array head coil; BC ⫽ birdcage or volume head coil.
b

The advantage of incorporating back-to-back acquisitions as a standard feature of the protocol is that the
decision to repeat the scan on the basis of image quality
will not be placed in the hands of individual technologists at the sites performing the scans. The ADNI MRI
quality control center at the Mayo Clinic will select the

better MP-RAGE sequence at each time point based on
centralized and standardized criteria. Perhaps most importantly, requiring back-to-back MP-RAGE scans
should reduce the number of examinations that must
be repeated due to poor image quality. This in turn
should minimize patient burden and enhance patient
retention in the study. Finally, if both MP-RAGE scans
are of equivalent high quality, the magnitude images
could be combined (typically after spatial registration of
the two image volumes) to produce a single image with
an improvement in SNR approaching 冑2.
Discussion of the appropriate imaging sequence to
employ for cerebral pathology detection centered on
FLAIR vs. dual contrast fast spin echo. The 30 minutes
allotted to patient scan time could accommodate only
one of these additional sequences. Although the FLAIR
sequence is highly useful, it was decided that some
clinical groups would ﬁnd a double fast spin echo sequence more in keeping with their general practice than
a stand-alone FLAIR image. This was an important consideration because an on-site interpretation of all ADNI
MRI studies by a local radiologist for medical alerts is a
feature of the overall ADNI study design. The MR core
therefore decided on the following for the ﬁnal format of
the ADNI execution phase protocol:
1. Standard prescan and scouting procedure recommended by the manufacturer
2. Sagittal 3D MP-RAGE
3. Sagittal 3D MP-RAGE repeat
4. Sagittal B1-calibration scan (phased array)
5. Sagittal B1-calibration scan (body coil)
6. Axial proton density T2 dual contrast FSE/TSE.

Figure 3. Example MP-RAGE images for each manufacturer
at 1.5 T (left) and 3 T (right). a,b: GE. c,d: Philips. e,f: Siemens.

These six series are typically completed in 30 minutes
or less. Series 4 and 5 are low-resolution maps used to
correct for B1-intensity variation of the phased array
receive coil. Consequently, they are omitted when only
a single-channel, T/R birdcage head coil is available. In
the case of the Philips scanners, a product B1-correction was available at the beginning of the study and was
integrated into the protocol. The other two vendors introduced product B1-corrections later, but reference
scans 4 and 5 were not replaced, to help ensure conti-

690

Jack Jr. et al.

nuity of the longitudinal data. A list of parameters for
series 2 and 3 is provided in Table 1, and representative
images for each vendor at both ﬁeld strengths are
shown in Fig. 3. Detailed lists of parameters for each
ADNI-supported vendor platform can be downloaded at
http://www.loni.ucla.edu/ADNI/Research/Cores/.
DISCUSSION
The requirements for the ADNI MRI protocol differ from
those used to generate a routine clinical protocol. For
example, while an experienced radiologist often can
“read through” minor artifacts, the automated software
programs used for the analysis typically cannot. In fact,
as a general rule, the more fully automated the analysis
algorithm is, the less tolerant it is to image imperfections. Therefore, smaller ﬁelds of view that can lead to
wraparound artifacts (e.g., the nose onto the back of the
head) were avoided, as well as parallel imaging methods
like sensitivity encoding (SENSE) that can sometimes
result in residual aliasing when there is imperfect calibration. Also, partial k-space acquisition was avoided
because of the associated artifacts that can result in
regions of rapid susceptibility variation. Consequently,
the acquisition time of the MP-RAGE series is somewhat longer than a corresponding protocol typically
used for diagnostic purposes. The ADNI MRI protocol
was selected in a data-driven manner with considerable
deliberation by a group of experts in the ﬁeld of MRI.
Because of the large multicenter nature of ADNI, MRI
techniques that were widely available in the 2004 –2005
time frame were given preference, although important
pulse sequence changes (like the fat-water chemical
shift direction) were allowed. The protocol follows a set
of principles (outlined by the MRI core, ADNI executive
committee, and external advisory committee) that are

Figure 4. ADNI phantom. The ADNI phantom is spherical,
with multiple inclusions that are used both for ﬁducial purposes and for SNR and contrast measurements. Image at the
bottom is an MRI illustrating the central SNR inclusion as well
as smaller spheres for ﬁducial measurements.

Figure 5. Effect of gradwarp. Spherical phantom with rectilinear grid inclusion before (left) and after (right) gradwarp
correction.

meant to maximize scientiﬁc utility while minimizing
research burden for participants in ADNI.
In addition to imaging study subjects, ADNI is also
acquiring images of a phantom in the same examination period as each human MRI exam (Fig. 4). The
phantom was speciﬁcally designed for ADNI by a subset
of the ADNI MRI core along with partners in industry
(16 –18). The ADNI phantom and accompanying analysis software will measure gradient calibration, residual
nonlinearity after 3D distortion (i.e., “gradwarp”) correction, SNR, and contrast. These measurements will
be used to monitor scanner performance over time for
each scanner involved in the ADNI study. Tolerance
speciﬁcations for each parameter will be established
when sufﬁcient longitudinal data from all participating
sites have been acquired and analyzed. These speciﬁcations will be used to inform sites of any deviation from
tolerance limits detected on individual scanners. In addition, the gradient calibration measures acquired at
each imaging time point will be linked with its corresponding human scan. This will permit retrospective
rescaling of human images to correct for drift or discontinuities in gradient calibration.
To enhance standardization across sites and platforms of images acquired in the ADNI study, post- acquisition correction of certain image artifacts has been
implemented. These include corrections in image geometry for gradient nonlinearity, i.e., 3D gradwarp (19,20);
corrections for intensity nonuniformity due to nonuniform receiver coil sensitivity (21); and correction of image intensity nonuniformity due to other causes such
as wave effects at 3 T. These corrections are system
speciﬁc. For example, only systems with apparent gradient nonlinearity undergo this correction; and the implementation of 3D gradwarp (or equivalent) is speciﬁc
for each gradient conﬁguration (Fig. 5). Similarly, correction for intensity inhomogeneity due to nonuniform
sensitivity of multiarray receiver coils was implemented
for those systems in which the manufacturer did not
provide this feature as a product at the inception of the
study (Fig. 6). In addition to the uncorrected original
image ﬁles, the images with all the corrections and
some with intermediate steps will be available to the
general scientiﬁc community, as described at http://
www.loni.ucla.edu/ADNI. These data correction procedures as well as image quality control procedures are
performed at a single site (Mayo Clinic). Image data
quality control includes inspection of each incoming
image ﬁle for protocol compliance, clinically signiﬁcant

The Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative

Figure 6. Intensity in-homogeneity correction. Phased array
coil acquisition at 1.5 T before (left) and after (right) intensity
nonuniformity correction. Images have been reformatted from
the sagittal into the axial plane to illustrate the intensity inhomogeneity anteriority prior to correction.

medical abnormalities, and image quality. The results
of image quality control analysis are uploaded to the
ADNI central data base, where this information is
linked to the relevant image ﬁle and is available to the
general scientiﬁc community. The actual image processing analyses for ADNI are performed at ﬁve separate sites.
The approach to standardization across sites and
platforms of the MRI protocol and acquisition parameters for each imaging sequence, post-acquisition correction of image artifacts, and phantom-based monitoring of the instruments themselves could be extended to
other multisite trials, including those in other research
areas. This approach will minimize variation in the data
collected due to technical nonuniformity and thus maximize across-site sensitivity to true biologic variation. In
large multisite studies where the role of MRI is to capture relevant phenotypic information in all study participants, the importance of standardization supersedes the natural impulse by MR scientists to employ
the most cutting edge MR methods that usually will be
unique to each platform and can introduce undesirable
technical variability.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors dedicate this manuscript to the memory
of Dr. Leon Thal. Dr. Thal devoted his career to the
goal of ﬁnding a cure(s) for Alzheimer’s disease. He
was universally respected and admired and was instrumental in establishing the ADNI study. See the
following web site: http://www.alzforum.org/
spotlight/Thaltribute.asp#barrett.
REFERENCES
1. Fox NC, Warrington EK, Freeborough PA, et al. Presymptomatic
hippocampal atrophy in Alzheimer’s disease. A longitudinal MRI

691
study. Brain 1996;119:2001–2007.
2. Fox NC, Crum WR, Scahill RI, Stevens JM, Janssen JC, Rossor MN.
Imaging of onset and progression of Alzheimer’s disease with voxelcompression mapping of serial magnetic resonance images. Lancet
2001;358:201–205.
3. Jack CR Jr, Petersen RC, Xu Y, et al. Prediction of AD with MRIbased hippocampal volume in mild cognitive impairment. Neurology 1999;52:1397–1403.
4. Jack CR Jr, Shiung MM, Weignad SD, et al. Brain atrophy rates
predict subsequent clinical conversion in normal elderly and amnestic MCI. Neurology 2005;65:1227–1231.
5. Xu Y, Jack C Jr, O’Brien PC, et al. Usefulness of MRI measures of
entorhinal cortex vs hippocampus in AD. Neurology 2000;54:1760 –
1767.
6. Dickerson BC, Goncharova I, Sullivan MP, et al. MRI-derived entorhinal and hippocampal atrophy in incipient and very mild Alzheimer’s disease. Neurobiol Aging 2001;22:747–754.
7. Dickerson BC, Salat D, Bates JF, et al. Medial temporal lobe function and structure in mild cognitive impairment. Ann Neurol 2004;
56:27–35.
8. Killiany R, Gomez-Isla T, Moss M, et al. Use of structural magnetic
resonance imaging to predict who will get Alzheimer’s disease. Ann
Neurol 2000;47:430 – 439.
9. Killiany RJ, Hyman BT, Gopmez-Isla T, et al. MRI measures of
entorhinal cortex vs hippocampus in preclinical AD. Neurology
2002;58:1188 –1196.
10. Du AT, Schuff N, Amend D, et al. Magnetic resonance imaging of
the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer’s disease. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry
2001;71:441– 447.
11. Mueller SG, Weiner MW, Thal LJ, et al. Ways toward an early
diagnosis in Alzheimer’s disease: the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). Alzheimers Dementia 2005;1:55– 66.
12. Mueller SG, Weiner MW, Thal LJ, et al. The Alzheimer’s Disease
Neuroimaging Initiative. Neuroimaging Clin North Am 2005;15:
869 – 877.
13. Fischl B, Salat DH, van der Kouwe A, et al. Sequence-independent
segmentation of magnetic resonance images. NeuroImage 2004;23:
S69 –S84.
14. Deoni SC, Peters TM, Rutt BK. High-resolution T1 and T2 mapping
of the brain in a clinically acceptable time with DESPOT1 and
DESPOT2. Magn Reson Med 2005;53:237–241.
15. Leow AD, Klunder AD, Jack CR Jr, et al. Longitudinal stability of
MRI for mapping brain change using tensor-based morphometry.
For the ADNI Preparatory Phase Study (2006). NeuroImage 2006;
31:627– 40.
16. Gunter JL, Bernstein MA, Borowski B, et al. Validation testing of
the MRI calibration phantom for the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative Study. In ISMRM 14th Scientiﬁc Meeting and Exhibition, 2006, Seattle, WA.
17. Mallozzi RP, Blezek DJ, Gunter JL, Jack CR Jr, Levy JR. Phantombased evaluation of gradient non-linearity for quantitative neurological MRI studies. In ISMRM 14th Scientiﬁc Meeting and Exhibition, 2006, Seattle, WA.
18. Mallozzi RP, Blezek DJ, Ward CP, Gunter JL, Jack CR Jr. Phantombased geometric distortion correction for volumetric imaging of
Alzheimer’s disease. In ISMRM 12th Annual Scientiﬁc Meeting and
Exhibition, 2004, Kyoto, Japan.
19. Hajnal JV, Hill DLG, Hawkes DJ. Medical image registration. New
York: CRC Press; 2001.
20. Jovicich J, Czanner S, Greve DN, et al. Reliability in multi-site
structural MRI studies: effects of gradient non-linearity correction
on phantom and human data. NeuroImage 2006;30:436 – 443.
21. Narayana PA, Brey WW, Kulkarni MV, Sievenpiper CL. Compensation for surface coil sensitivity variation in magnetic resonance
imaging. Magn Reson Imaging 1988;6:271–274.

