Significant relative worsening was seen with the following markers: the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale I, the Autonomic Scale for Outcomes in Parkinson's Disease, the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, the RBD Screening Questionnaire, and RBD by PSG as well as VBM units of cortical gray matter and hippocampus.

The study's aim is to improve early diagnosis and to assess proper progression markers, scored at baseline with biannual follow-up.11 We hypothesized that a composite panel of multimodal progression markers covering overall NMS, cognitive measures, sleep, imaging, and CSF indices would be instructive in understanding the natural history of early PD, and to thereby delineate specific and sensitive outcome measures for future intervention trials.

16 We tested known CSF markers that have been previously discussed as potential diagnostic markers of PD state or its progression, including total a-synuclein, b-amyloid 1-42, total and phosphorylated tau protein, as well as neurofilament light chain proteins.

The remaining 10 markers showed statistically significant changes reflecting either progression in PD or change due to treatment or both when compared to controls: these encompassed increasing sleep disturbances and worsening of NMS, whereas NMS severity and depression improved.

These results have immediate consequences for clinical research in PD by restricting the potential usage of some markers, and will take more time to eventually change the clinical care delivered to patients with PD. There are limitations of clinical practice-led exploratory studies, such as ours, which merit discussion.

We cannot remove any influence conferred by therapy on our investigational markers, but purposefully included 8 markers that are likely independent of any introduced symptomatic therapy,34 such as MRI volumetry and blood and CSF markers.

Second, most of our proposed marker candidates showed promising results as early diagnostic markers, which does not necessarily qualify them as progression markers.

Further marker candidates specific for progression of the disease need to be explored.

33 Future studies need to investigate the validity of these proposed markers, standardize the assessment of nonmotor features, and identify more sensitive and disease-specific marker candidates that reflect underlying biological processes.

Maetzler W, Liepelt I, Berg D. Progression of Parkinson's disease in the clinical phase: potential markers.