Temporal lobe atrophy on MRI in Parkinson disease with dementia A comparison with Alzheimer disease and dementia with Lewy bodies C.W.C. Tam, MRCPsych; E.J. Burton, PhD; I.G. McKeith, MD; D.J. Burn, MD; and J.T. O'Brien, DM Abstract-Objective: To investigate the extent of medial temporal lobe atrophy on MRI in Parkinson disease with and without dementia compared with Alzheimer disease and dementia with Lewy bodies and to determine whether MTA correlates with cognitive impairment in PD and PD dementia.

PD subjects had greater hippocampal atrophy than control subjects but less than subjects with DLB and AD, though not with PDD. MTA correlated with CAMCOG score and memory scores in the DLB group and with age in control, PDD, and AD groups.

There were no correlations between MTA and cognitive impairment in PD, PDD, and AD. PDD and DLB had a similar profile of cognitive impairment and MTA. Conclusions: Medial temporal lobe atrophy was seen in cognitively intact older subjects with Parkinson disease and was not more pronounced in Parkinson disease dementia.

12,13 We have previously used voxel-based morphometry to demonstrate atrophy of the frontal lobe in PD that extends to temporal, occipital, and parietal lobes in PDD.14 We sought to compare the extent of MTA assessed visually from MRI scans in subjects with PD with and without dementia and those with DLB and AD and control subjects and to examine the relationship between MTA and cognitive and noncognitive symptoms.

Weighted values for visual ratings of atrophy were as follows: right MTA 0.60 and left MTA 0.57.

Differences in MTA. Table 3 summarizes the combined scores of MTA in each group.

MTA of the control group was less than that of PD, PDD, AD, and DLB groups.

DLB had more MTA vs PD. Differences in MTA between PD and PDD or between PDD and DLB were not significant.

There were no correlations between frequency or severity of neuropsychiatric symptoms and MTA ratings in any dementia groups.

Our data confirm previous reports that patients with PD without dementia have more MTA than age-matched control subjects.