Patients: Eighty consecutive patients who met criteria for the diagnosis of MCI were recruited from the Mayo Clinic Alzheimer's Disease Center/Alzheimer's Disease Patient Registry.

The hippocampi of the patient who became demented are visibly atrophic relative to the stable patient despite the fact that the crossover patient was 5 years younger.

Eighty consecutive MCI patients were recruited from the Mayo Clinic AD Center and AD Patient Registry, which are prospective, longitudinal studies of aging and dementia.

Patients who became demented, all of whom received the diagnosis of probable AD at that time, were designated as crossover patients; the mean follow-up time for these patients was 30.8 6 17.3 months.

During the period of observation, 27 of the 80 MCI patients converted to AD. Of the 13 MCI patients with hippocampal W scores $ 0 at baseline, 2 converted to AD; 19 of 54 with W scores between 0 and 22.5 crossed over; and 6 of 13 with W scores # 22.5 crossed over.

Methods: A comprehensive neuropsychological and psychiatric evaluation was carried out in 72 patients with AD with apathy and depression, 29 patients with AD with apathy only, 31 patients with AD with depression only, and 52 patients with AD with neither apathy nor depression.

On individual comparisons, patients with apathy only had significantly lower scores than patients without apathy on the following tests: Buschke-Total Recall and the Boston Naming Test; and significantly lower scores than patients with depression only on the Buschke-Delayed Recall.

Second, the copresentation of both depression and apathy did not result in cognitive deficits greater than those for apathy alone, except on a test of abstract thinking, where patients with both apathy and depression had significantly lower scores than patients with apathy only.

1 Second, our study included patients with questionable dementia, and whether all these patients will eventually meet the full criteria for AD is unknown.

2 The current study assessed a larger sample of patients with AD, and not only replicated the association between apathy and memory deficits, but showed that patients with AD with apathy also had significantly more severe deficits on tasks of naming, verbal fluency, and set shifting, thus demonstrating a profile of cognitive deficits similar to those we found previously in patients with PD with apathy.