We used proton MR spectroscopic imaging and tissue segmented and volumetric MR images to measure atrophy-corrected hippocampal NAA alld volumes in 12 A13 patients and 17 control subjects of comparable age.

In conclusion, hippocampal NAA measured by 'H MRSI combined with quantitative measurements of hippocampal atrophy by MRI may improve diagnosis of AD. NEUHOI,OGY 1997;49:16 13- 1521 Neuropathologic studies of brains from patients with Alzheimer's disease demonstrate neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary lesions, accompanied by neuron loss and gliosis.

An initial MRI study of hippocampal atrophy reported a complete separation of AD patients from healthy elderly," other studies of larger numbers of subjects showed some overlap between these groups.

Who found reduced NAA in the supraventricular cortex of AD patients, showed that these NAA reductions were to some degree independent from MRI changes, and demonstrated that when N.4A measures were combined with measurements of ventricular volumes, AD patients and control subjects could be better classified than with either measure alone.

Our previous experience obtaining 'H MRSI spectra from the hippocampal regions in patients with temporal lobe epilepsyI8 indicated t h a t 'H MRSI of the hippocampus was feasible.

One possible explanation for this overlap is that neuron loss in the hippocampus of AD patients is accompanied by reactive gliosis, ' j which attenuates tissue atrophy, resulting in an underestimation of volume loss by MRI and consequently in the failure to discriminate between AD patients and normal elderly.

Another explanation for the overlap includes the possibility that the control group may have included individuals with preclinical AD, Finally, the lack of a complete separation between AD patients and control subjects could also be interpreted in the sense of a neurobiological continuum between norm a1 aging and dementia, a view supported by findings of several recent ~ t u d i e s. ' ~Nevertheless, "~ the finding of this study that hippocampal NAA and volume provide independent information regarding the discrimination between AD patients and control subjects supports our hypothesis that 'H MRSI in conibination with MRI may be helpful in providing improved diagnosis and early detection of AD. There are several limitations to this study.

First, the AD patients have not yet been followed to autopsy, so it is not absolutely certain that the patients have AD. Second, data from elderly patients with dementias due to causes other than AD were not included.

These NAA reductions are statistically independent from hippocampal volume losses, and NAA taken together with volume provides better discrimination between AD patients and control subjects than either measure alone.

Patients undergoing diagnostic neuropsychologicd testing also completed one subtest of the MMSE, the spelling of "World." I n addition to its forward and backward spelling, patients were asked to reorder these letters in alphabetical sequence.