Incidence rates for dementia range from 4.2 to 9.5% per year.1,2 The prevalence of dementia in PD ranges from 10 to 30%. Thus, PD with dementia may represent the second most common cause of dementia after Alzheimer's disease.

Ca Received 28 March 2002; Revised 14 December 2002; Accepted 16 December 2002 784 PD AND HIPPOCAMPAL ATROPHY patients with coexistent dementia, highlighting the clinical overlap of DLB and PDD.16 -18 We sought to conﬁrm that hippocampal atrophy was evident in an independent sample of patients with PD with very mild cognitive impairment or dementia compared with healthy elderly and non-demented PD using whole-brain volumetric imaging.

20 Parkinson's disease with dementia patients required a diagnosis of PD to have preceded the diagnosis of dementia or cognitive impairment by at least one year.

21 Cognitive impairment was staged using the Clinical Dementia Rating Scale,22 which has been used previously in staging dementia in PD.23 A rating of 0.5, termed questionable or very mild dementia, indicates persistent memory impairment, or mild cognitive or functional change, representing a change from a previous level of function and was the minimal criterion for cognitive impairment.

All cognitively impaired and demented PD patients were referred to as PDD. Higher stages on the CDR represent more severe dementia: 1, mild dementia; 2, moderate dementia; 3, severe dementia.

These analysis techniques have been shown previously to be reliable: hippocampal volume, intraclass correlation 0.90; parahippocampal volume, ICC 0.81; temporal lobe volume, ICC 0.93; frontal lobe volume, ICC 0.91; parieto-occipital lobe volume, ICC 0.93; and intracranial volume, ICC 0.98.33 The sum of the right and left hemisphere volumes was examined because we did not hypothesize that hippocampal degeneration would be lateralized.

DISCUSSION Our data conﬁrm that PD patients with or without cognitive impairment have more hippocampal atrophy than healthy age-matched control subjects, with volumes similar to that in patients with mild AD. Differences in parahippocampal volumes were of borderline signiﬁcance, and trends observed were related to dementia severity.

41 In a comparison with controls and patients with progressive supranuclear palsy, patients with PD did not show hippocampal atrophy, raising the possibility that atrophy is accelerated in PD.42 A recent study demonstrated that cognitive decline was PD AND HIPPOCAMPAL ATROPHY correlated with global brain atrophy in PD.43 A previous volumetric study of patients with PD suggested that hippocampal atrophy might be correlated with episodic memory, consistent with our ﬁnding of a relationship between cognitive function and left hippocampal volume.

44 Given the high risk of dementia in people with PD and the ﬁnding that atrophy precedes the onset of dementia, our study raises the possibility that focal atrophy might provide a presymptomatic marker for dementia risk.

Hippocampal volumes in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease with and without dementia and in vascular dementia: an MRI study.