Structural MRI might therefore provide an early marker for dementia in PD. 2009 Movement Disorder Society Key words: Parkinson's disease; dementia; hallucinations; MRI; cognitive functions Parkinson's disease has traditionally been considered as a motor disorder.

MRI STUDIES IN PATIENTS WITH PD WITH DEMENTIA Manual ROI studies in patients with PD have mainly focused on medial temporal lobe structures because these areas are known to present atrophy in other dementias such as Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies and because differences in the degree of atrophy between dementias may have important implications for diagnosis.

15 Medial temporal lobe atrophy is encountered in AD,16 but studies in PD with dementia show that atrophy in medial temporal lobe areas may also underlie dementia in PD. In a previous study using VBM, we observed that patients with PD with dementia showed gray matter loss in hippocampus, parahippocampus, and anterior cingulate gyrus as well as the basal ganglia in comparison with healthy controls.

MRI STUDIES IN PATIENTS WITH PD WITHOUT DEMENTIA The ﬁrst study using a manual ROI approach11 to assess the hippocampus in nondemented patients with PD reported decreased hippocampal volume in patients with PD without dementia when compared with controls.

If the areas that suffer the most atrophy over time are related to cognitive dysfunctions that lead to dementia, we would be able to determine objective markers for the development of dementia and provide evidence of therapeutic effect when modifying treatments related to the onset of dementia are available.

CONCLUSIONS MRI studies have reported cortical atrophy in PD. ROI imaging studies have shown reduced hippocampal and amygdala volumes even in nondemented patients, and atrophy in these structures has been related to overall cognitive performance and memory deﬁcits in PD. VBM studies have demonstrated that patients with PD with dementia present limbic and widespread neocortical gray matter loss, whereas patients with PD without dementia mainly present atrophy in frontal and temporal areas.

Cortical atrophy assessed by MRI may therefore be a useful early marker for the development S751 of dementia in PD. The imaging ﬁndings reviewed here suggest that the term ''subcortical dementia'' is not adequate to describe the dementia occurring in PD. However, it should be borne in mind that the results from MRI structural studies in PD vary widely.

Barber R, Ballard C, McKeith IG, Gholkar A, O'Brien JT. MRI volumetric study of dementia with Lewy bodies: a comparison with AD and vascular dementia.

Burton EJ, McKeith IG, Burn DJ, Williams ED, O'Brien JT. Cerebral atrophy in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia: a comparison with Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies and controls.

Beyer MK, Larsen JP, Aarsland D. Gray matter atrophy in Parkinson disease with dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies.